US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has arrived in Jordan as part of the
latest diplomatic push for a ceasefire
in Gaza it's blink's seventh visit to
the Middle East since the War Began on
Monday he met Regional leaders in Saudi
Arabia and is expected to visit Israel
next so let's cross to Stephanie deer
who's joining us now from occupied East
Jerusalem what might we see unfold on
the Israeli leg of his trip
then yes he's expected to arrive here
this evening and will be holding me
tomorrow uh the Americans are really
here to two things push for a ceasefire
for negotiations for the release of the
captives and for Rafa not to happen this
is something that they have said all
along they haven't changed their
position in fact Anthony blinkin
yesterday saying that Israel has not
given a plan that shows that they are
able to avoid Mass civilian casualties
when it comes to this uh potentially
imminent ground offensive inaa so this
is going to be high on the agenda uh
they are of course in constant contact
the Americans and the Israelis but you
mentioned there his seventh visit to the
region um they are trying to put
pressure and I think these times are
different now because of the imminence
potentially of Rafa which is something
that the Americans don't want it's
something that the Egyptians uh which is
going to be right on their doorstep
don't want so now you're getting the
regional players allies players uh
getting their own interests very much
being affected so you're seeing an
upping of international pressure on the
Israeli Prime Minister who's really
Under Fire from all sides at this
point tell us more about Israeli remarks
on the plan to attack Rafa on the
ground well interestingly you've just
had the Israeli Prime Minister talking
to the families of soldiers soldiers who
died um during the Gaza War they are
putting a lot of pressure on him to go
into Rafa this is of course another
sector of society because you also have
you know hundreds of thousands of
Israelis who are calling for an end for
a deal to bring the captives home and
even for a new election so he's just
been talking to them and he's saying
that Rafa is going to go ahead that the
evacuation of civilians have already
started um and that arfa will go ahead
with or without a deal interestingly you
have Philip lazarini speaking now he is
the head of unra the UN Palestinian
Refugee agency he said that this is not
true that uh Israel has not started
evacuating civilians from Rafa so it
goes to show that what is said publicly
to appease some kind of pressure of
society is not necessarily what is
happening on the ground where are we
with the negotiations well Hamas is
expected to respond to Israel's
counterproposal by tomorrow night um and
then it can go one of two ways if they
agree uh then we'll have the beginning
of a ceasefire the release of captives
with the release of prisoners and some
movement within Gaza of Palestinians to
the north and Israeli soldiers away from
certain areas in the Gaza Strip if they
don't agree then according to the
Israelis you're going to see arafa
offensive very very soon so we're going
to have to wait and see how the next
couple of days play out certainly I
think a pivotal
moment Stephanie Dean occupied e
Jerusalem thank you nor day is a
political analyst and expert on
Palestinian Affairs she is with us now
from the Jordanian Capital Aman and so
nor we see Hamas coming under pressure
to accept a deal that is mediated by
countries in the region that would
involve a hostage exchange and also uh
temporary halt hostilities in Gaza but
it doesn't look as though they will
necessarily make those concessions does
this mean that Israel's
longthree might be more imminent
well I think what's interesting is that
we've seen over the past few days a lot
of statements you know urging and
pressuring Hamas to accept and for a
while there was a lot of cautious
optimism up until this morning and then
we just in the past uh um hour heard
from the Israeli Prime Minister
announcing that he would order an
invasion of RAF with or without a deal
in essence I think trampling all these
ceasefire talks because uh uh and this
is what the families of the Israeli
captives had feared this is what the
negotiators had feared the uh mediators
had feared and and the statement comes
after Netanyahu held a meeting with his
most right-winged uh Coalition Partners
including uh BV so we're seeing now a
dance back and forth of saying we can
have a hostage exchange deal but then
we're still going to go forth forward
with with the ra Invasion and that is
not going to Bell with anybody involved
in these talks and somewhat humiliating
for Israel's main Ally whose secretary
of state is currently in the region
trying to Cobble together some sort of
agreement absolutely the uh secretary
blinkin is here uh in Jordan after
having met with the uh Saudi officials
and other uh Gulf officials in Riad he
will be uh speaking with uh uh
government officials here with top uh
Jordanian government officials and then
moving on to to Israel and it seem it's
interesting because it seems every time
linkoln comes to the region uh uh you
know catching uh the Tailwind of some
optimism something like this happens and
he ends up really going home with
nothing to show for all this political
momentum it seems after the statement
that that might be the case I know you
and I have had conversations about this
in in past years when you were based in
Gaza of course you know the land very
well how
catastrophic would a ground in invasion
of Rafa be for the
Palestinians it would be apocalyptic
because we're already Beyond
catastrophic when it comes to the
humanitarian situation in Rafa Rafa is
one of the most impoverished areas of
Gaza long before October
right now it is home to 1.4 million
displaced malnutritioned and desperate
uh people at least half of them are
children there aren't hospitals to tend
to these people there isn't enough
medicine uh to treat them and there
certainly isn't enough food or water to
make sure they're you know uh receiving
proper element an invasion of RAF would
be absolute uh um an absolute disaster
uh Kan yunas to the north is has been
leveled has been pummeled if you stand
in the middle of Kan yunas now and look
West you can see the the the the sea you
can see the beach when in the past all
you could see were buildings some quite
High all of that is now gone because of
the previous Invasion and to the North
in there we also saw a lot of
Destruction and Devastation so
effectively these people would be
escaping if they can to places that have
no Services no food no water no
hospitals because those hospitals have
been attacked and as you were reporting
the U attack on al- Naser Hospital in
kanun is the center of uh some inquiry
from the international criminal
court nor day thank you very
much make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer